um on the side of it's good to engage
and it's good through that engagement to
press our case about the things that we
feel
are important and to exercise whatever
influence we can
to make things better you're also
pointing out that
china is increasingly outsourcing uh
manufacturing to south east asia
now is that just shifting the problem
around you know now it's
bangladesh where we saw the terrible
rana plaza and the collapse of that
killing more than a hundred people who
were in there who'd warned you know the
walls are coming down it's not just
china
are they just shifting it to southeast
asia or is that an opportunity to do
something i think it's absolutely an
opportunity china's shifting a lot of
its low-skilled
sort of manufacturing to places in
southeast asia and other parts of the
world
and it's an opportunity for the world
and for the west to cooperate with china
so hey let's let let's raise
labour standards here it's good for
western companies it's good for chinese
companies to get behind
these sorts of things and this is an
area where china and the west can
cooperate positively
on human rights and where you know the
chinese are always very very sensitive
about people looking into china but if
china were to project its power
positively to other parts of the world
that
that might be a good thing but i think
beyond that
this is an issue of poverty it's an
issue
of disadvantage and it's an
issue about exploitation and
you know it's interesting that this
whole story has been framed
around china it shouldn't just be framed
around china this is a global issue
as has been said earlier on the
principle and the story is right
um but it's not just about china and
sinjar
but at the same time you can watch a
documentary can't you glennis
and you can talk to people who were in
the rana plaza building who might have
survived whose legs were crushed
whose children have to go and live with
their their parents in small rural
villages while they were but you can't
the bbc crew are moved on this is
forced labor that we're that we're
talking about here
and even when organizations like uniqlo
who say that they've signed up to the
better cotton initiative when you look
up the better cotton initiative
it talks about training chinese farmers
including uiga
in the seven core principles which is
about environmental standards
rather than about labor standards what
can you do for the soil and so forth
um how much kind of posturing do you
think there is by companies like uniqlo
and the rest
when they say look we can't really
figure out our supply chains
and we're doing this better cotton
initiative thing yeah
i mean green washing has become a very
common term in
a lot of industries but fashion
particularly um
fashion has always operated on an
incredibly opaque
basis like we see the clothes in the
shops we see it online with it on
instagram whatever
you see the pretty thing for years and
years and years you never saw what
happened behind and it was rana plaza
that first
brought that to everyone's like right in
your face i mean it was about 1100
people that died that day
or that week and then another 2 000 i
think were
injured like you say hundreds
of children orphaned it was a monumental
tragedy that finally put this whole
thing into very stark relief
so i mean it is a it is a very global
issue
do you do you buy the idea that it is
very difficult to work out
yeah where the material is coming from
you do absolutely yeah it
because like you say the chinese
factories for example will outsource to
somewhere else in southeast asia
so the company let's say a company in
australia that says well my factory is
in china
i'm working with this factory it's only
now that you can start working out the
transparency of this supply chain right
because it any item of clothing has
probably already traveled around the
world before that it gets into
our stores here for example so the
notion of transparency is increasingly
important
but it's it's there is still a lot of
opacity in that i think you have to dig
really deep you got to get people on the
ground
a lot of brands do do that a lot of
people i think a lot of brands
trust what they're told
but interestingly surely um a buyer a
western buyer
who's sourcing cotton for a whole range
of places has to walk into a factory
whether it's in bangladesh or in china
or in fact in leicester and say
look i can get these made for three
dollars a garment or four dollars a
garment or five dollar garment and
and someone else will do it cheaper
somebody else is in there haggling
uh to make that happen and that is uh
that is presumably a customer from a
from a major
on behalf of a major brand yeah
yeah it's always about the bottom dollar
they're always looking for the cheapest
option it's a simple fact of economics
it's not it's not right
can i just say i hope the technology
sort of makes some improvements here i
mean there's a lot of action
in in the big corporate world around
resilient supply chains and
and and agile supply chains and
responsible supply chains and the role
of data
artificial intelligence you know
technology in making those supply chains
a lot more efficient so they can shift
up and down depending if there's a
disruption if there's risk if there's a
disaster
etc but similarly i think technology
will help
make supply chains all that more
responsible so where some of the
some of the the the provenance issues
where does this particular component
come from this is an area where
hopefully technology will make some sort
of a some sort of a contribution well
then there's the us approach where you
just have to say
this legislation says okay if you're a
company and you want to
you want to import goods made in whole
and part in xinjiang
you have to prove it wasn't made with
forced labor well that might be fine for
likey and uniqlo
but what if you're a small australian
exporter what if you're a
two person mum and dad sort of shop in
australia and you're buying your
materials and you've got great designs
how are you meant to have the same sort
of compliance mechanism
um as a nike or a uniqlo and so
again maybe this is an area where
technology
can make a difference well for decades
we've known that the choices we make in
clothing stores have very real
consequences for the people that make
those clothes
responding to this has led to a rise in
ethical shopping in sydney's new town
the social outfit employs refugees and
migrants to recycle scraps of material
into new clothes its ceo camilla shipper
spoke to reporter stephanie volchy
we exist to do things differently to
show that you can do
fashion differently and you can sell
clothes that
empower women rather than selling
clothes that exploit
we exist primarily to provide first
australian jobs
to refugees with a particular focus on
refugee
women our refugees are paid proper wages
they're also provided with a community
that supports them to build their
confidence their
english skills so they can then
transition to
other employment
fashion industry is well known for its
negative impact
on the environment as well as some other
areas as well
and there is so much waste so we
contact the australian fashion labels
that are still making
here in australia and ask them for their
ender roles their leftovers
and we've saved over seven tons of
fabric from landfill to date
with kobe what we chose to do was
actually shift completely so the
opposite
of fast fashion we slowed everything
down we only made what we sold online
and and so
then there is no waste at all our
customers love that
feeling of uniqueness of having
something that's made
just for them the stats in australia are
pretty
are pretty shocking i think it's just a
couple of times on average that we wear
each piece
that we buy we're different because our
clothes
are made to last first of all you know
who made them you can actually meet your
maker
they are not super cheap because they're
made in australia we pay ethical wages
so when you pay a little bit more for an
item of clothing that you love
you're going to keep that and you're
going to keep on
using it and using it again and again
[Music]
it's a lovely idea maggie you can meet
your maker
i love it i think that is such a lovely
story that's fabulous
inspirational in fact but nobody's
lining up to get into their shops as
they are
to get into the fast fashion shops can
you try and articulate for me
perhaps our generation's view of
of clothing and and the modern view
of of faster fashion do you understand
that distinction because you are a
fashion plate one must say i say that
with
a very kind well there i was thinking
you were asking me this question first
because i'm clearly
shallow
look i mean i think there is a
disposability about
modern culture now you know whether it's
the digital you know how often do people
buy a book now compared to just
listening to it digitally online
particularly if you happen to be under
20.
so i think there is a kind of the
fastness of general life
means that for everybody you don't
necessarily buy that thing will be in
the wardrobe for 20 years because that's
not how your mind works
your mind actually works on fast fast
fast fast now the only way that you can
continue to provide that kind of
turnover at a cheap price
unfortunately in the current environment
it's probably largely because of really
unfortunate employment practices
and i wonder whether you know really
what we're going to have to
try and generate is a different attitude
in particular younger people
and i don't say all of them because
clearly there is you know a thoughtful
group there that is saying no
i'll pay more or i just won't have
something because it doesn't meet my
criteria
um i tend to think from my own
perspective i probably buy them far too
much but i like to buy things that will
be in the cupboard for a long time and i
never
ellen throw anything out which is
another
right that's the long shadow is the
landfill of all this stuff cola
are you aware that um that your
generation was worked on to change your
perception of fashion from
from from maggie and mai's generation uh
that it was to be something disposable
as opposed to something it was to move
into the chewing gum category from the
washing machine category of something
you just got rid of next next next
i i am aware of that i got to say i'm
always hesitant because i am often the
one speaking on behalf of
uh us millennials i guess i might even
be a gen z
or gasp um but i i i am aware of that i
think that that's you know part of the
broader cultural shift that i that i
absolutely agree with
i do think however that that this is not
necessarily just
an issue of uh consumer behavior and
attitudes i think that what you're
seeing
particularly in the u.s legislation that
we discussed earlier
i think that that is really going to be
the linchpin of any real change here
i i think that if you if it comes down
to consumers
choosing expensive over less expensive
uh that's often going to be a losing
battle
i think you need to see nation states
taking a stronger stance before we can
really tackle this issue
glenn has explained fast fashion to me
and the viewer
because it seems that cheaper cheaper
cheaper cheaper is baked into the
business model
in a way that would make it hard for
them to suddenly say oh and we'll do it
ethically
yeah yeah right it's kind of a
contradiction in terms also i just want
to fly the
flag for gen x here while we're at it
thank you
but um yeah it's it's very business
model is based on speed so
like zara can get this item from sketch
to store
in two weeks it can respond to trends
before
the brands that you've seen on the
catwalk can get into store six months
later it's speed it's
it's cheap and it's disposable and that
is the biggest problem and this is the
mindset that we absolutely have to get
over and
and yes we talk about the younger
generation being much more of that
mindset but i think it's for everybody
we all just have to
you know once you have a piece of
clothing it's it should be an emotional
thing when you buy it some things we buy
from the necessity but
other things we buy because they're
beautiful because they make us feel good
because we have a connection to them
those things you buy and you keep them
if you get a hole in it
you fix it if the zip breaks you fix it
i mean this is
basic stuff that i grew up with they're
all of absolutely a certain age
so we need to say to stop doing this
thing of like oh
the button's gone i'm chucking it in the
bin like you can't do that if you're
bored of it eventually
give it to a friend we have clothing
swaps with girlfriends every six months
or so and this is
very popular um so there are many other
options than chucking something in the
bin
it's called not to stereotype you but
would you ever done a sock
yes thank you but i ever said it again
fix a hole in a sock with a thread no
nevermind
um
i think if we have to explain i can say
i have never
i don't you know we'll see what the
future holds i certainly haven't
i don't a number of socks over locked
down i want that on the record
you might dinosaur now
i wonder to cole's point whether or not
you can have conscious
consumption given that the whole thing's
designed to work on our emotions or
whether you actually need to say
no you can't yeah we're not we're not
it's illegal to buy anything that cheap
because someone got hurt making it all
the world did
i i think we're all conscious consumers
and we all make choices depending on we
we want to work for organizations whose
values reflect
ours we want to buy products on where
the company's values sort of reflect us
no we don't
after plaza it was the biggest year on
record for the fast fashion industry
everyone went
isn't that terrible oh look at that
email i'll have that t-shirt i
think this is knotting i mean i i do
that i i don't do it for fashion because
i'm just so clueless
with you know fashion i just buy bonds
t-shirts and iron williams and that's
about
and uniqlo jeans and that's about it um
but in lots of other areas where i make
you know investment choices when i make
i mean i i i we're talking about this
we're talking about this issue and what
you're saying is
oh i give myself a pass on that stuff
because i don't buy much but i make
really good decisions in investments
so so my kids when i when i when i talk
to my kids about this
they mention it all the time and they
are very very conscious about
the brands that they buy and um you know
and the sort of
you know products and the brands that
they they're very tuned into
environmental considerations into human
rights uh considerations
so you know i i think guys my age
this sort of problem um probably
less tuned into the to the to the
fashion
sort of angle of of this because
we're largely dags yes and you're still
wearing what you bought
ten years ago yeah exactly i wasn't
wearing shirts from five years ago
so there we go i think that if i
if i could jump in quickly i think that
jason made a really good point because i
actually think that
um it does require like an investment of
time
to be educated about all these different
issues i don't think that that can be
expected of every consumer
um i think that that that's why i sort
of advocate at the at the state level
needing legislation on this medium
regulation i think that this is the
reason why you see cars other than
prius's driving around on the road
um because consumers just can't be
expected
to make all of these decisions in an
informal way when you're faced with
hundreds of them each day
um well then quickly and finally then
glennis
what's a legitimate price to pay for a
t-shirt how much do you have to pay to
be sure
that no one was hurt in the production
of this t-shirt yeah and one that says
slow
fashion yeah that is
that is a really good question because
uh you still have to
deep dive into it but i think
25 30 for a t-shirt maybe okay maybe
and anything less than that you gotta
wonder yeah
okay last year it was fires this year it
looks set to be floods as huge areas of
new south wales and queensland are
engulfed by severe weather in byron bay
locals have watched in shock as their
main
beach disappeared under high tides and
roaring waves on the gold coast the
legendary sand strips have turned into
foamy bubble baths whipped up by
wild seas and strong winds there are
evacuation orders out for several areas
of northern new south wales where rivers
have swollen with rain and the bad
weather is coming at a time
when maggie tourism operators are most
in need of a boost
um we've been warned by the weather
experts by the meteorologists that
you know la nina is having an impact and
will have an impact over summer on the
eastern coast of australia and including
new south wales
i'm hoping what we've seen in the last
few days won't be repeated
frequently over summer but it could uh
our weather experts tell us they're
expecting conditions worse than what
we've seen in quite a number of years
maggie maggie maggie we just can't take
a trick
basically you know i mean this is triple
whammy time for everybody now bushfires
covered and now
appalling weather uh you know and it's
not like we can go anywhere else
home is our only option at this point in
time interestingly enough our research
is telling us the 25
of people have already made the decision
to stay put for christmas and not go
anywhere at all
um so we shall just have to see
i mean i think that for many people
though this christmas holidays is less
about going off for a leisure holiday
and more about reconnecting with family
and friends i mean there are love
actually moments happening all over the
country
and the weather won't actually matter
when it comes to that
yeah and how do you see what do you hear
from queensland i see
advertisements all over sydney saying
queensland is open come on up
are people moving around or are they
staying caught
well there's been a fair old surge into
queensland as soon as the border opened
and that's a great thing
but what i worry about is that it is
actually that pent-up demand is family
and friends not necessarily just heading
off for a leisure holiday i think it's
going to take us till february march to
see
and more to the point how holiday
patterns have actually changed people
may not choose to go away at the same
time they did before all things could be
different
fascinating interesting thank you so
much um apologies to your dog
maggie for being so sorry she won't be
very happy at all with you
so send apologies on our behalf our
thanks to jason yetzen lee glen it's
lovely to have you in trial nash
and cole brown sorry about the um sock
joke at your expense maggie osmond was
with us as well have a great evening
kath robertson's in tomorrow night good
[Music]
night
2020 is almost over and what a year it's
been
costa lends a hand to a very special
gardener if i hadn't have had the garden
maybe i wouldn't have lived or a hundred
get crafty this christmas
kids will love making them and it's a
great activity for family and friends
and look at these luscious lockdown
gardens it's just so
rewarding having the ability to watch
life
and nature just grow around you
gardening australia
friday on abc and iview
good evening it's tuesday the 15th of
december here are our top stories
israel's supreme court rejects
malkolife's appeal against extradition
to australia
a lose-lose situation scott morrison
responds to reports of china banning
australian coal imports
kabul's deputy governor killed by a car
bomb
and time to turn the page joe biden
officially confirmed the winner of the
u.s
presidential election you're watching
the world
[Music]
tonight south korea's parliament votes
to ban propaganda from being sent to the
north
but first israel's supreme court has
rejected an appeal by former melbourne
school principal malka lifer
against a ruling to extradite her to
australia to face
74 charges of sexual abuse israel's
justice minister can now sign the
extradition order
to have her returned to melbourne to
face trial
middle east correspondent eric torjec
reports
this is a significant decision because
it's the last time
that malcolm can appeal to the supreme
court
trying to block attempts to return her
to australia
and it means that israel's justice
minister will be able to sign the
extradition order
and she'll be able to jump onto a plane
and head and head to melbourne to face
trial
one of the judges commented that there's
no legal avenue that
malka lifer's defence team has not
pursued
attempting to block her extradition this
case had stalled for a number of years
because she said that she was
incapacitated by mental illness
secretly filmed video uh by private
investigators
uh proved that to be untrue and then in
his subsequent israeli police
investigation
um confirmed that and she was put in
prison on remand
and the extradition hearings were
restarted after a two-year delay
and that's how we came to this point two
years later it's actually been six years
uh since this process started uh and the
supreme court commented that now
you know there's there's nothing
stopping the the extradition um there
there is there is one small
thing that can happen which is that um
the justice minister's signature
can be appealed but that's an
administrative process it doesn't go to
a full hearing of the supreme court
eric torchek there a lose-lose situation
that's how the prime minister has
described
reports that china is imposing a ban on
imports of thermal coal from australia
there's no official word from beijing
despite the nationalistic state-owned
global times
appearing to confirm the ban that could
cost the industry around four billion
dollars
the federal government has called on the
chinese government to rule out the
reports
but if found to be true scott morrison
says the ban would breach
wto rules we would hope
that's certainly not the case um and
that's why we're seeking clarification
on this but i
i make the point that the thermal coal
is
about 4 billion out of the 13 billion in
exports to china
china is not our biggest market for
thermal coal that is in
fact japan which is more than double the
exports than we have to china
and on metcal india is actually our
biggest met coal export so our
our coal mines and our coal exports have
a a diverse customer base
but obviously if we take these issues
very seriously
and if this were to be the practice the
four
billion odd that goes into coal-fired
power generation in china
it really is a lose-lose here because
australian coal compared to the coal
that is sourced from other countries
the other countries have 50 percent
higher emissions than australian coal
uh and as a result that that would be a
bad outcome for the environment
um it would be a bad outcome and further
the trading relationship between
australia and china that
that both countries benefit from and so
i would hope
that we could get to the point of having
some mature discussions about these
issues
that's what the australian government is
seeking and to discuss this and
a number of the other trade issues and
we'll get some
international reaction to this story
shortly i'll be speaking with lawyer and
wto
adviser henry gal the nigeria-based
islamist group boko haram says it was
behind the kidnapping of hundreds of
boys from their high school
in northwestern katsina state last
friday
the group's leader released an audio
message saying the boys were kidnapped
because the school's
western-style education is against
islamic principles
the army announced yesterday that it had
located the hideout of the men
and that a military operation is
underway but its progress
is unclear the deputy governor of
afghanistan's capital kabul has been
killed by a car bomb
security officials say a sticky bomb was
attached to
mabu mahabhi's car by unknown assailants
he was traveling with his security
guards when the blast occurred with two
guards
also injured last week an afghan
government prosecutor was shot dead in
eastern kabul while
he was on his way to work joe biden's
election win has been confirmed after
electoral college members
formally cast votes for him to replace
donald trump
on january the 20th in a prime time
speech mr budden called on americans to
turn the page on the trump era and said
not even a pandemic
could extinguish the flame of democracy
the u.s today became the first country
to record a staggering
300 000 lives lost from covert 19.
but as greg janet reports it opened a
new chapter
as healthcare workers rolled up their
sleeves for the start of a max
mass vaccination campaign
anticipation matched the scale of
america's exposure
after 16 million cases and climbing the
fight back starts with a few
sharp shots doctors nurses and
supervisors on the front line
spoke of a vaccine as a peace settlement
i hope this marks the beginning to the
end of a very
painful time in our history and so it
went at 145 locations around the country
just under 3 million doses will be in
freezes within two days
we can meet our goal of vaccinating
every american who wants it by the end
of the second quarter of 2021.
if the vaccine's arrival marks the
beginning of the end of the pandemic
then this day
also marks the terminal phase of donald
trump's presidency
his legal challenges to the election
have all flopped and from here on
his 75 million popular votes don't count
for much either
the nation's just taken a leap towards
electing its next president
and it won't be him 20 votes for the
honorable joseph r biden
for president of the united states in
pennsylvania and 49 other state
legislatures
the electoral college has delivered its
verdict
california pushed joe biden's tally
above the magic 270.
eyes 55 knows zero
no rogue votes and no upsets either
the flame of democracy was lit in this
nation a long time ago
and we now know nothing not even a
pandemic
or an abuse of power can extinguish that
flame
the results as good as confirmed and
will be by congress when it counts the
college votes next month
dozens and dozens and dozens of legal
challenges to test the result
they were heard again and again and each
of the time they were heard they're
found to be without merit donald trump's
calmly parting ways with the man who
wouldn't back his claims of systemic
voter fraud
attorney general william barr but still
no concession from him there may never
be one
greg janet abc news washington
and we'll have more on the developments
in the us with political scientist
christian cantack
later in the program now india has
suffered one of the world's
worst outbreaks of coronavirus recording
almost
10 million cases of the disease in
recent weeks the crisis has eased but
the shocking death toll has left
a deep scar more than 10 000 people have
died in delhi alone
and intensive care units remain at
capacity
with many patients suffering severe
symptoms south asia correspondent
james ocean reports
the pies at delhi's largest cremation
ground have been burning
around the clock
the situation is really bad 40 to 50
covered dead bodies are coming daily
the last two months have been like this
the capital has just endured its
deadliest wave yet
at its peak five people were dying an
hour
and the death toll has remained
stubbornly high
the fear of getting infected is always
there but we are performing essential
duties so we have to work
we can't just run away so it's 9 30
right now and i'm
headed for my 24 hour shift it's also
been an unrelenting year for dr nandini
passi
who's documented her time on the front
line
i'm so tired i don't know whether to
eat or sleep or take a bath
dr passi has been scanning the lungs of
covered patients
she's seeing damage far worse than
previous waves
and that's clogging the intensive care
units there have been patients who
stayed for over a month in the hospital
doctors say covert 19 is still
unpredictable
and the sheer spread of the disease
means they're witnessing the gamut of
symptoms
there are young people many young people
who are getting quite a severe form of
infection
even though we were expecting a number
of rise in the cases what we were not
expecting was a rise in the severity
that was seen in the
younger and the middle-aged group
india's vaccination program could begin
as early as next
month i hope it just all of this ends
real soon because i think the world has
seen enough but vaccinating the second
most populous nation
will be a long and arduous task james
oaten abc news
in russia 11 elderly people have been
killed after a retirement home caught
fire
the blaze reported in the early hours of
the morning in the region of
bashko-tostan
took three hours to bring under control
it's believed one of the survivors was a
staff member who guided three others out
of the building
an investigation into the incident has
been launched
in russia poisoned kremlin critic alexis
navalny has declared
the mystery surrounding his
assassination attempt has been solved
following a joint media investigation
implicating agents from russia's federal
security service
the reporters identified three
individuals who allegedly followed mr
navalny to siberia
where he was poisoned and had been
stalking the opposition leader for years
with strong involvement from the highest
levels of the kremlin
rachel merritt reports yes
i know who wanted to kill me i know
where they live i know where they work
i know their real names i know their
fake names
holding photos of the russian security
agents he believed poisoned him in
august
with a deadly nerve agent novichok
alexis navalny
has declared the case is closed it's the
result of a joint media investigation
into the failed assassination attempt
led by investigative website bellingcat
and a russian media outlet
the insider using flight details
metadata and mobile phone gear location
investigators have compiled a timeline
of the poisonings
identifying a network of russian
intelligence agents
who followed mr navalny to siberia
the report suggests the attack was the
culmination of years of surveillance
beginning in 2017 when the political
activist announced his intention to run
for president
it also flagged the possibility of
previous failed poisoning attempts on mr
navalny and his wife
who suffered similar symptoms to
novichok poisoning
months before the august attack
this is a story about a secret group of
killers from the fsb
which includes doctors and chemists you
won't hear about this on television
because the one giving orders to this
group is the russian president vladimir
putin
the report also speculates on the
existence of a russian
covert chemical weapons program operated
by the security service
but in conclusion the investigation is
clear
who is to blame given this implausible
series of coincidences
the burden of proof for an innocent
explanation appears to rest
purely with the russian state the
kremlin is remaining tight-lipped over
their alleged involvement
they're continuing to deny any links to
the poisoning
and casting doubt on the accuracy of lab
reports
identifying the presence of the
soviet-style nerve agent
with no official russian investigation
into the incident
the latest allegations may be the
closest hope to date
of finding answers rachel merritt abc
news
[Music]
returning to china's reported ban on
australian coal imports and prime
minister scott morrison says the move
could be in breach of international
trade rules henry garl is an associate
professor of law at singapore management
university
and a member of the advisory board of
the wto chairs program and joins us
live from singapore great to have you on
the show henry
and what are the legal implications
behind china's move does it breach wto
rules indeed
well we saw the details at this moment i
think it's hard to
see that china's accents are in clear
violations of wq rules
because the wto even though it
encourages
free trade but there are many exceptions
look for
that china could make use of to justify
the actions
like environmental protection alike to
protect the technology industry and so
on so
i think it's really hard to say at this
moment whether china's exercising clear
violations
of wp rules what's your assessment of
china's reasons
behind its latest moves against
australian industries how valid
are the reasons given for the bans
well i think there are definitely
geopolitical factors that
play uh in china's restrictions
against the various australian exports
like the body
like the one and now but as i said
earlier you know if you are familiar
with state law there are always
good excuses available to justify
chinese actions
so at least legally speaking i think
china could still
uh make a good fight do you think this
latest dispute can be resolved through
negotiations between australia
and china uh personally i would say
bilateral negotiation with china
is australia is the best option because
litigation
could be time time-consuming and you are
not guaranteed a win
so australia might want to sit down with
china and try to assess what are the
concerns of china
and how these concerns could be
addressed before
uh taking legal action i think that
would be a much better approach
well there might be quite a delay the
wto's
appellate court is currently hamstrung
because the u.s has blocked the
appointment of more judges
meaning it's unable to enforce decisions
right now
what do you make of the timing of
china's latest move
well the timing is interesting i mean
you could argue that
uh china is doing that in order to take
advantage of the parliament
seats at the attended body but again
even if australia is still shining in
the wq the case could take a year before
it is
ever heard by their petty body and by
that time their petty body could be back
up and running well how likely is it
that the incoming u.s administration
will get the wto's court moving again
and will that help to improve
australia's position in any way
uh well i think the incoming
administration in the u.s the abiding
elementation
definitely has a more favorable attitude
towards the wq and the availability than
the trump administration
so there's a high likelihood that you
would want to revise the apparent body
but in terms of the legal merits of the
case even with their petty body
back in the game i don't think it would
really
matter that much because uh it is rare
for the panels
to uh uh actually disagree from their
petty body that much
so i would say that we or we saw the
apparent body
australia would be fighting a difficult
legal battle if it decides to take a
case
and henry how badly would an extended
ban affects the
australian coal industry in your view
uh well it would have a major impact
because china is a major customer
and at least in the short term it would
be hard to replace
all these losing skills to china from
other countries i mean you have
india which is picking up some of the uh
exports
from australia but india's imports are
mainly in coking
code which is uh quite different because
a lot
of uh impulse china is making a summer
call
and you also can try to import more uh
uh export more to japan and korea
but again the volume uh would be quite
different
than a big country like china
and just finally henry how are other
countries in the region viewing the
deteriorating relations between
australia and china
well some countries are sympathetic to
australia but i think some countries are
actually quite happy
for example indonesia just assigned this
major contract with china
on the supply of a coal and i think they
are definitely going to benefit
from the secret war between australia
and china
henri so good to have you on our show
thank you so much for your time
my pleasure now south korea's decision
to ban the launching of propaganda
leaflets to the north has been met with
criticism from rights activists
for decades campaigners have sent
political leaflets money and other goods
across the highly fortified border
usually by balloon or bottles sent via
rivers
but the south korean parliament has
voted to put an end to the practice in
three months time
with violators facing huge fines or up
to three years in prison
one high-profile north korean defector
says he won't abandon his counterparts
across the border
and will continue his leaflet campaign
they made such an unjust law which
blocks the north korean people's right
to know
and cover their eyes and ears it's
inconceivable
from today the republic of korea is not
a country of free democracy anymore
well we'll get more analysis on this
story with nk news
seoul correspondent wong jong a little
later do stay tuned for that
a monster storm cell has once again
smashed southeast queensland with some
parts of the gold coast hinterland
receiving a